---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agents Using Generated Setup Files"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/agents_deploy_package.html"
last_updated: "1/9/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.1071"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agents Using Generated Setup Files

In this article

When you configure the Veeam Agent management infrastructure in Veeam Backup & Replication, you can create protection groups of the [Computers with pre-installed backup agents](agents_protection_groups_types.md) type. If you selected this protection group type, you must deploy Veeam Agents on the computers that you plan to protect.

Before You Begin

Consider the following before you start Veeam Agent deployment:

* The deployment operation must take place on the Veeam Agent computer side.
* You must use only those Veeam Agent setup files that are generated by Veeam Backup & Replication after the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents is created. To learn more, see [Specifying Packages](protection_group_packages.md).

* Do not install Veeam Agent on servers that are used as components of the Veeam Backup & Replication infrastructure. This includes Veeam backup servers, backup repositories, proxy servers, mount servers, distribution servers, gateway and helper appliance servers, and any other backup infrastructure component that has the Veeam Mount Service deployed.

* If any other version of Veeam Agent is already installed on the computer you plan to protect, you must uninstall it first.
* If you [migrate from one Veeam backup server to another](vbr_config.md), or [enable the High Availability (HA) cluster](high_availability_cluster.md), you must update Veeam backup server settings on each computer in the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents. To do this, [regenerate the setup files](protection_group_packages.md) and repeat the configuration step of the Veeam Agent deployment scenario.
* [For Microsoft Windows computers and Linux computers running RHEL, Rocky Linux or SLES] If you uninstall Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows or Veeam Agent for Linux added to the protection group of the [Computers with pre-installed backup agents](agents_protection_groups_types.md) type and then re-install it on the same computer, Veeam Agent will not connect to the Veeam backup server automatically. To connect Veeam Agent, you must repeat the configuration step of the Veeam Agent deployment scenario.

Deploying Veeam Agents

Deployment scenario depends on the Veeam Agent you work with:

* [Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows](deploy_agent_windows.md)
* [Veeam Agent for Linux](deploy_agent_linux.md)
* [Veeam Agent for Unix](deploy_agent_unix.md)
* [Veeam Agent for Mac](deploy_agent_mac.md)

Page updated 1/9/2026

Page content applies to build 13.0.1.1071
