---
title: "Installing and Configuring Veeam Agent for Mac in Command Line Interface"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/agents_vam_install_cli.html"
last_updated: "3/31/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.2067"
---

# Installing and Configuring Veeam Agent for Mac in Command Line Interface


You can install and configure Veeam Agent for Mac using the command line interface.

Installing or Upgrading Veeam Agent for Mac

To install or upgrade Veeam Agent in the command line Interface, do the following:

1. Upload the Veeam Agent setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication to the computer you want to protect.
2. Install the package with the following command:

|  |
| --- |
| installer -pkg </path/package.pkg> -target <volume> |

where:

* </path/package.pkg> — the full path to the downloaded package on the computer you want to protect.
* <volume> — name of the disk where you want to install Veeam Agent. You must install Veeam Agent on the system disk that is running macOS. To specify the system disk, enter the name of the disk or a '/' (slash) character.

For example:

|  |
| --- |
| user@wrk001 ~ % installer -pkg /Users/User/Desktop/Veeam?Agent?for?Mac-13.0.1.84.pkg -target / |

1. [For macOS 11 or later] After the installation process is complete, grant full disk access to Veeam Agent.

Applying Protection Group Configuration to Veeam Agent for Mac

To manage Veeam Agent for Mac through the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must apply the settings from the protection group configuration file generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To do this, run the following command from the folder where the Veeam Agent setup files are located:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode setVBRsettings --cfg <protection\_group\_name>.xml |

where <protection\_group\_name> is the name of the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents.

Veeam Agent uses the settings from the protection group configuration file to connect the Veeam Agent computer to the Veeam backup server.

Consider that the connection between Veeam backup server and Veeam Agent computer is not persistent. Veeam Agent synchronizes with Veeam Backup & Replication every 6 hours. To synchronize Veeam Agent with Veeam Backup & Replication immediately, run the following command on the Veeam Agent computer:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode syncnow |


