---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/agents_deployer_vaw.html"
last_updated: "11/26/2025"
product_version: "13.0.1.1071"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows

In this article

To deploy Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows using Veeam Deployment Kit, perform the following steps:

1. On the Veeam Backup & Replication side, create and export Veeam Deployment Kit. You can do that in the following ways:

* Using PowerShell:

1. Start a Veeam PowerShell session. For more information, see the [Running Veeam Backup PowerShell Sessions](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/powershell/running_sessions.html?ver=13) in the Veeam PowerShell Reference.
2. Run the Generate-VBRBackupServerDeployerKit cmdlet to generate the Veeam Installer Service temporary certificates and Veeam Installer Service and OpenSSL installation packages. Use the -AllPlatforms parameter to download setup files for Microsoft Windows computers. To learn more, see the [Generate-VBRBackupServerDeployerKit](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/powershell/generate-vbrbackupserverdeployerkit.html?ver=13) section in the Veeam PowerShell Reference.

* Using Veeam Backup & Replication console:

1. Open the Inventory view.
2. Click the Physical and Cloud Infrastructure node in the inventory pane and click Create Veeam Deployment Kit on the ribbon. Alternatively, right-click the Physical and Cloud Infrastructure node in the inventory pane and select Create Veeam Deployment Kit.
3. In the Create Deployment Kit window, specify a path to the folder to which Veeam Backup & Replication will export Veeam Installer Service temporary certificates, Veeam Installer Service and OpenSSL installation packages.

1. On the Veeam Agent computer side, install the uploaded files. You can do this in one of the following ways:

* Automatically, using a script provided with the installation files. To use this deployment option, navigate to the directory where you have saved the files on the computer and run the InstallDeploymentKit.bat script.

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You may need to modify the script according to your system configuration. |

* Manually:

1. Navigate to the directory where you have saved the files on the computer, open the Windows subfolder and install OpenSSL and Veeam Installer Service.
2. Navigate to the directory where you have saved the files on the computer, open the Certificates subfolder and install the certificates:

|  |
| --- |
| C:\Windows\Veeam\Backup\VeeamDeploymentSvc.exe --install-server-certificate /path/to/server-cert.pem --key /path/to/server-key.pem  C:\Windows\Veeam\Backup\VeeamDeploymentSvc.exe --install-certificate /path/to/client-cert.pem |

1. Restart Veeam Installer Service:

|  |
| --- |
| net stop VeeamDeploySvc  net start VeeamDeploySvc |

1. On the Veeam Backup & Replication side, create a protection group with the following parameters:

1. At the Type step of the wizard, select Individuals computers.
2. At the Computers step of the wizard, specify a computer and select the Connect using certificate-based authentication method to connect to the computer.

To learn more, see [Creating Protection Group for Individual Computers](protection_group_individual.md).

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You can also find detailed instructions on the Veeam Agent deployment in the readme.txt file that is available among the setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. |

After you create the protection group, Veeam Backup & Replication will rescan the protection group. During the rescan operation, Veeam Backup & Replication will replace the Veeam Deployer Service temporary certificate, connect to the Veeam Deployer Service and install Veeam Agent. To learn more, see [Rescan Job](agents_discovery_job.md).

Page updated 11/26/2025

Page content applies to build 13.0.1.1071
