---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agent for Linux"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/agents_deployer_val.html"
last_updated: "1/9/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.1071"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agent for Linux


|  |
| --- |
| IMPORTANT |
| You cannot use this deployment method to install and configure a nosnap Veeam Agent for Linux on Power. |

To deploy Veeam Agent for Linux using Veeam Deployment Kit, perform the following steps:

1. On the Veeam Backup & Replication side, create and export Veeam Deployment Kit. You can do that in the following ways:

* Using PowerShell:

1. Start a Veeam PowerShell session. For more information, see the [Running Veeam Backup PowerShell Sessions](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/powershell/running_sessions.html?ver=13) in the Veeam PowerShell Reference.
2. Run the Generate-VBRBackupServerDeployerKit cmdlet to generate the Veeam Deployer Service temporary certificates and Veeam Deployer Service installation packages. To learn more, see the [Generate-VBRBackupServerDeployerKit](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/powershell/generate-vbrbackupserverdeployerkit.html?ver=13) section in the Veeam PowerShell Reference.

* Using Veeam Backup & Replication console:

1. Open the Inventory view.
2. Click the Physical and Cloud Infrastructure node in the inventory pane and click Create Veeam Deployment Kit on the ribbon. Alternatively, right-click the Physical and Cloud Infrastructure node in the inventory pane and select Create Veeam Deployment Kit.
3. In the Create Deployment Kit window, specify a path to the folder to which Veeam Backup & Replication will export the deployment kit files.

1. On the Veeam Agent computer side, install the uploaded files. You can do this in one of the following ways:

* Automatically, using a script provided with the installation files. To use this deployment option, navigate to the directory where you have saved the files on the computer and run the install-deployment-kit.sh script.

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You may need to modify the script according to your system configuration. |

* Manually, using a package manager:

1. Navigate to the directory where you have saved the files on the computer and install the Veeam Deployer Service and OpenSSL packages. Keep in mind that if you downloaded the setup files using the Veeam Backup & Replication console or PowerShell specifying the -AllPlatforms parameter, the OpenSSL and Veeam Deployer Service packages will be located in the Linux subfolder.
2. Run the following commands to install the certificates:

|  |
| --- |
| /opt/veeam/deployment/veeamdeploymentsvc --install-server-certificate /<path>/server-cert.pem --key /<path>/server-key.pem  /opt/veeam/deployment/veeamdeploymentsvc --install-certificate /<path>/client-cert.pem |

where <path> is the full path to the Certificate directory that contains the certificate files.

1. Restart the Veeam Deployer Service:

|  |
| --- |
| /opt/veeam/deployment/veeamdeploymentsvc --restart |

1. On the Veeam Backup & Replication side, create a protection group with the following parameters:

1. At the Type step of the wizard, select Individuals computers.
2. At the Computers step of the wizard, specify a computer and select the Connect using certificate-based authentication method to connect to the computer.

To learn more, see [Creating Protection Group for Individual Computers](protection_group_individual.md).

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You can also find detailed instructions on the Veeam Agent deployment in the readme.txt file that is available among the setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. |

After you create the protection group, Veeam Backup & Replication will rescan the protection group. During the rescan operation, Veeam Backup & Replication will replace the Veeam Deployer Service temporary certificate, connect to the Veeam Deployer Service and install Veeam Agent. To learn more, see [Rescan Job](agents_discovery_job.md).


