---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agent for Mac"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/deploy_agent_mac.html"
last_updated: "1/27/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.1071"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agent for Mac


To deploy Veeam Agent for Mac using setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication, perform the following operations:

1. [Installation](#install)
2. [Configuration](#configure)

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You can also find detailed instructions on the Veeam Agent deployment in the readme.txt file that is available among the setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. |

Installation

To install Veeam Agent for Mac and all the required components, do the following:

1. Upload Veeam Agent setup files to the computer you want to protect.

Keep in mind that you must use Veeam Agent setup files that are generated by Veeam Backup & Replication after the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents is created. To learn more, see [Specifying Packages](protection_group_packages.md).

1. Navigate to the directory where you have saved the setup files and install Veeam Agent. This procedure is similar to the default installation of the Veeam Agent for Mac. To learn more, see the [Installing Veeam Agent](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/agentformac/userguide/installation_options.html?ver=13) section in the Veeam Agent for Mac User Guide.

1. Grant full disk access to Veeam Agent for Mac. To learn more, see the [Granting Full Disk Access](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/agentformac/userguide/installation_full_disk_access.html?ver=13) section in the Veeam Agent for Mac User Guide.

Alternatively, you use install Veeam Agent and grant full disk access using a Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution. To learn more, see the [Installation and Configuration with MDM Solution](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/agentformac/userguide/installation_and_configuration_mdm.html?ver=13) section in the Veeam Agent for Mac User Guide.

Configuration

To configure Veeam Agent for Mac, you must import connection settings from the configuration file that you obtained when the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents was created. To learn more, see the [Importing Configuration from Backup Server](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/agentformac/userguide/import_config_file.html?ver=13) section in the Veeam Agent for Mac User Guide.

If you use the MDM solution to install Veeam Agent, you must deploy the configuration file as a device profile. To learn more, see the [Installation and Configuration with MDM Solution](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/agentformac/userguide/installation_and_configuration_mdm.html?ver=13) in the Veeam Agent for Mac Use Guide.

Keep in mind that you may need one of the following configuration files depending on the solution that you use:

* <protection\_group\_name>.xml
* <protection\_group\_name>\_escaped.xml

where <protection\_group\_name> is a name of the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents.

Consider that the connection between Veeam Backup & Replication and Veeam Agent is not persistent. Veeam Agent synchronizes with the Veeam backup server every 6 hours. After you apply the connection settings, Veeam Agent will use them to connect to backup server during the next synchronization.

To synchronize Veeam Agent immediately, run the following command on the Veeam Agent computer:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode syncnow |


