---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agent for Unix Using Generated Setup Files"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/deploy_agent_unix.html"
last_updated: "3/31/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.2067"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agent for Unix Using Generated Setup Files


To install or upgrade Veeam Agent for IBM AIX or Veeam Agent for Oracle Solaris on a machine added to a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must perform the following operations:

1. [Install](#install) or [upgrade](#upgrade) Veeam Agent using the setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication.
2. [Apply the protection group configuration to Veeam Agent](#configure).

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You can also find detailed instructions on deploying Veeam Agent in the readme file included in the setup file set generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. |

Installing Veeam Agent for Unix

|  |
| --- |
| IMPORTANT |
| Before you install Veeam Agent, check software prerequisites for [Veeam Agent for IBM AIX](agents_system_requirements_unix.md#vaix_soft) and [Veeam Agent for Oracle Solaris](agents_system_requirements_unix.md#vaos_soft). |

To install Veeam Agent for IBM AIX or Veeam Agent for Oracle Solaris, do the following:

1. Upload the installation archive to the machine you want to protect.

You must use the setup files that were generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To learn more about generating Veeam Agent setup files, see [Specifying Packages](protection_group_packages.md).

1. Extract the contents of the installation archive to a local directory.
2. Navigate to the directory where you extracted the archive, and run one of the following commands to install Veeam Agent:

* For IBM AIX:

|  |
| --- |
| rpm -ivh VeeamAgent-13.0.1.2106-ppc64.rpm |

* For Oracle Solaris 10 and 11 on x86 architecture:

|  |
| --- |
| pkgadd -G -d ./VeeamAgent-13.0.1.2106-i386.pkg |

* For Oracle Solaris 10 and 11 on SPARC architecture:

|  |
| --- |
| pkgadd -G -d ./VeeamAgent-13.0.1.2106-sparc.pkg |

Upgrading Veeam Agent for Unix

After you upgrade Veeam Backup & Replication, Veeam Agent for Unix on the computers in protection groups for pre-installed Veeam Agents may become outdated. You can manually upgrade Veeam Agent for Unix on these computers.

To upgrade Veeam Agent for IBM AIX or Veeam Agent for Oracle Solaris, do the following:

1. In the Edit Protection Group wizard, regenerate the setup files to get the latest version of Veeam Agent. For more information, see [Editing Protection Group Settings](agents_protection_group_edit.md).
2. Upload the Veeam Agent setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication to the machine you want to protect.
3. Extract the contents of the installation archive to a local directory.
4. Navigate to the directory where you extracted the archive and run one of the following commands to upgrade Veeam Agent:

* For IBM AIX:

|  |
| --- |
| rpm -U VeeamAgent-13.0.1.2106-ppc64.rpm |

* For Oracle Solaris 10 and 11 on x86 architecture:

|  |
| --- |
| pkgadd -G -d ./VeeamAgent-13.0.1.2106-i386.pkg |

* For Oracle Solaris 10 and 11 on SPARC architecture:

|  |
| --- |
| pkgadd -G -d ./VeeamAgent-13.0.1.2106-sparc.pkg |

Applying Protection Group Configuration to Veeam Agent for Unix

To manage Veeam Agent for IBM AIX or Veeam Agent for Oracle Solaris through a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must apply the settings from the protection group configuration file generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To do this, run the following command from the directory where the Veeam Agent setup files are located:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode setVBRsettings --cfg <protection\_group\_name>.xml |

where <protection\_group\_name> is the name of the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents.

Veeam Agent uses the settings from the protection group configuration file to connect the Veeam Agent machine to the Veeam backup server.

Consider that the connection between Veeam backup server and Veeam Agent machine is not persistent. Veeam Agent synchronizes with Veeam Backup & Replication every 6 hours. To synchronize Veeam Agent with Veeam Backup & Replication immediately, run the following command on the Veeam Agent machine:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode syncnow |


