---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows Using Generated Setup Files"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/deploy_agent_windows.html"
last_updated: "3/31/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.2067"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows Using Generated Setup Files


To install or upgrade Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows on a computer added to a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must perform the following operations:

1. [Install](#install) or [upgrade](#upgrade) Veeam Agent using the setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication.
2. [Apply the protection group configuration to Veeam Agent](#configure).

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You can also find detailed instructions on deploying Veeam Agent in the readme file included in the setup file set generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. |

Installing Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows

To install Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows and all the required components, do the following:

1. Upload the Veeam Agent setup files to the computer you want to protect. Then navigate to the folder where you have saved setup files.

You must use the setup files that were generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To learn more about generating Veeam Agent setup files, see [Specifying Packages](protection_group_packages.md).

1. To install the Veeam OpenSSL3 FIPS Provider, double-click the VeeamOpenSslFips.v3.0.0.msi file located in the <path\_to\_setup\_files>/Windows/13.0.2.1102 folder.
2. To install .NET Desktop Runtime, double-click the windowsdesktop-runtime-8.0.21-win-x64.exe file located in the <path\_to\_setup\_files>/Windows/13.0.2.1102 folder.
3. To install ASP.NET Core Runtime, double-click the aspnetcore-runtime-8.0.21-win-x64.exe file located in the <path\_to\_setup\_files>/Windows/13.0.2.1102 folder.
4. To install Windows Universal C Runtime (CRT) on Windows Server 2012 R2, find and double-click the following file: <path\_to\_setup\_files>/Windows/13.0.2.1102/VAW/x64/CRT/Windows8.1-KB2999226-x64.msu.

If the computer runs a later version of Microsoft Windows, skip this step.

1. To install Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows, double-click the Veeam\_B&R\_Endpoint\_x64.msi file located in the <path\_to\_setup\_files>/Windows/13.0.2.1102/VAW folder.

Upgrading Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows

After you upgrade Veeam Backup & Replication, Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows on the computers in protection groups for pre-installed Veeam Agents may become outdated. To manually upgrade Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows on these computers, do the following:

1. In the Edit Protection Group wizard, regenerate the setup files to get the latest version of Veeam Agent. For more information, see [Editing Protection Group Settings](agents_protection_group_edit.md).
2. Upload the Veeam Agent setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication to the computer you want to protect.
3. Install the latest version of Veeam Agent as described in the [Installing Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows](#install) section.

Applying Protection Group Configuration to Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows

To manage Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows through a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must apply the settings from the configuration file generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To do this, start a Windows PowerShell session and run the following command from the folder where the Veeam Agent setup files are located:

|  |
| --- |
| "C:\Program Files\Veeam\Endpoint Backup\Veeam.Agent.Configurator.exe" -setVBRsettings /p:"<protection\_group\_name>.xml" |

where <protection\_group\_name> is the name of the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents.

Veeam Agent uses the settings from the protection group configuration file to connect the Veeam Agent computer to the Veeam backup server.

Consider that the connection between Veeam backup server and Veeam Agent computer is not persistent. Veeam Agent synchronizes with Veeam Backup & Replication every 6 hours. To synchronize Veeam Agent with Veeam Backup & Replication immediately, run the following PowerShell command on the Veeam Agent computer:

|  |
| --- |
| "C:\Program Files\Veeam\Endpoint Backup\Veeam.Agent.Configurator.exe" -syncnow |


