---
title: "Deploying Veeam Agent for Linux Using Generated Setup Files"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/deploy_agent_linux.html"
last_updated: "3/31/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.2067"
---

# Deploying Veeam Agent for Linux Using Generated Setup Files


To install or upgrade Veeam Agent for Linux on a computer added to a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must perform the following operations:

1. [Install](#install) or [upgrade](#upgrade) Veeam Agent using the setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication.
2. [Apply the protection group configuration to Veeam Agent](#configure).

|  |
| --- |
| NOTE |
| You can also generate setup files for nosnap versions of Veeam Agent for Linux (including Veeam Agent for Linux on Power). |

|  |
| --- |
| TIP |
| You can also find detailed instructions on deploying Veeam Agent in the readme file included in the setup file set generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. |

Installing Veeam Agent for Linux

|  |
| --- |
| IMPORTANT |
| Before you install Veeam Agent for Linux, check software prerequisites in [System Requirements for Linux Computers](agents_system_requirements_linux.md). |

To install Veeam Agent for Linux on a computer that you want to add to a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, do the following:

1. Upload the Veeam Agent setup files to the computer you want to protect.

You must use the setup files that were generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To learn more about generating Veeam Agent setup files, see [Specifying Packages](protection_group_packages.md).

1. Navigate to the directory where you have saved the setup files and install Veeam Agent as described in the following topics depending on the type of Veeam Agent for Linux packages you want to install:

* [Installing Veeam Agent for Linux from Generated Setup Files](agents_pre-installed_val_install.md)
* [Installing Nosnap Veeam Agent for Linux from Generated Setup Files](agents_pre-installed_val_install_nosnap.md)
* [Installing Nosnap Veeam Agent for Linux on Power from Generated Setup Files](agents_pre-installed_valp_install_nosnap.md)

Upgrading Veeam Agent for Linux

After you upgrade Veeam Backup & Replication, Veeam Agent for Linux on the computers in protection groups for pre-installed Veeam Agents may become outdated. To manually upgrade Veeam Agent for Linux on these computers, do the following:

1. In the Edit Protection Group wizard, regenerate the setup files to get the latest version of Veeam Agent. For more information, see [Editing Protection Group Settings](agents_protection_group_edit.md).
2. Upload the Veeam Agent setup files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication to the computer you want to protect.
3. Navigate to the directory where you have saved the setup files and install Veeam Agent as described in the following topics depending on the type of Veeam Agent for Linux packages you want to upgrade:

* [Upgrading Veeam Agent for Linux](agents_pre-installed_val_upgrade.md)
* [Upgrading Nosnap Veeam Agent for Linux](agents_pre-installed_val_upgrade_nosnap.md)
* [Upgrading Nosnap Veeam Agent for Linux on Power](agents_pre-installed_valp_upgrade_nosnap.md)

Applying Protection Group Configuration to Veeam Agent for Linux

To manage Veeam Agent for Linux through a protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must apply the settings from the configuration file generated by Veeam Backup & Replication. To do this, run the following command from the directory where Veeam Agent setup files are located:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode setVBRsettings --cfg <protection\_group\_name>.xml |

where <protection\_group\_name> is the name of the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents. Alternatively, you can specify the full path to the configuration file passed with the --cfg option.

Veeam Agent uses the settings from the protection group configuration file to connect the Veeam Agent computer to the Veeam backup server.

Consider that the connection between Veeam backup server and Veeam Agent computer is not persistent. Veeam Agent synchronizes with Veeam Backup & Replication every 6 hours. To synchronize Veeam Agent with Veeam Backup & Replication immediately, run the following command on the Veeam Agent computer:

|  |
| --- |
| veeamconfig mode syncnow |


