---
title: "Step 7. Deploy Veeam Agents"
product: "vbr"
doc_type: "userguide"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/pg_pre_installed_next.html"
last_updated: "3/31/2026"
product_version: "13.0.1.2067"
---

# Step 7. Deploy Veeam Agents


After you create a protection group for computers with pre-installed Veeam Agents, you must manually install and configure Veeam Agent on the target computers by using the setup and configuration files generated by Veeam Backup & Replication.

Before You Begin

Consider the following before you start Veeam Agent deployment:

* The deployment operation must take place on the Veeam Agent computer side.
* You must use only those Veeam Agent setup files that are generated by Veeam Backup & Replication after the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents is created. To learn more, see [Specifying Packages](protection_group_packages.md).
* If any other version of Veeam Agent is already installed on the computer you plan to protect, you must uninstall it first.
* If you [migrate from one Veeam backup server to another](vbr_config.md), or [enable the High Availability (HA) cluster](high_availability_cluster.md), you must update Veeam backup server settings on each computer in the protection group for pre-installed Veeam Agents. Otherwise, after a migration, backups will stop working completely. In the case of an HA cluster, backups will continue to work only with the primary node, but will fail if a switchover or failover to the secondary node occurs.

To update Veeam backup server settings, [regenerate the setup files](protection_group_packages.md) and repeat the configuration step of the Veeam Agent deployment scenario.

* Do not install Veeam Agent for Linux on servers that are used as components of the Veeam Backup & Replication infrastructure. This includes Veeam backup servers, backup repositories, proxy servers, mount servers, distribution servers, gateway and helper appliance servers, and any other backup infrastructure component that has the Veeam Mount Service deployed.

* If you uninstall Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows or Veeam Agent for Linux added to the protection group of the [Computers with pre-installed backup agents](agents_protection_groups_types.md) type and then re-install it on the same computer, Veeam Agent will not connect to the Veeam backup server automatically. To connect Veeam Agent, you must repeat the configuration step of the Veeam Agent deployment scenario.

Deploying Veeam Agents on Protected Computers

Instructions for deploying Veeam Agent vary depending on the operating system of the protected computer:

* [Deploying Veeam Agent for Microsoft Windows Using Generated Setup Files](deploy_agent_windows.md)
* [Deploying Veeam Agent for Linux Using Generated Setup Files](deploy_agent_linux.md)
* [Deploying Veeam Agent for Unix Using Generated Setup Files](deploy_agent_unix.md)
* [Deploying Veeam Agent for Mac Using Generated Setup Files](deploy_agent_mac.md)


