---
title: "Amazon S3 and S3 Compatible Object Storage Considerations and Limitations"
source_url: "https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/vbr/userguide/s3_compatible_limitations.html"
last_updated: "12/9/2025"
product_version: "13.0.1.1071"
---

# Amazon S3 and S3 Compatible Object Storage Considerations and Limitations

In this article

General Limitations

Consider the following limitations:

* Make sure that you add an S3 compatible object storage device fully compatible with the AWS S3 operations and AWS S3 Signature Version 4 standard.
* [For S3 compatible] According to AWS S3 API recommendations, Veeam Backup & Replication uses the SHA256 algorithm for request signatures. Make sure that the S3 compatible object storage you plan to add supports the SHA256 algorithm. If the S3 compatible object storage does not support SHA256, you can switch to MD5.

To use MD5 instead of SHA256, set the S3UseMd5ContentHash value in the /etc/VeeamAgentConfig file on the Linux-based backup server. On the Microsoft Windows-based backup server, set the HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Veeam\Veeam Backup and Replication\S3UseMd5ContentHash {DWORD} registry value. This setting enables the use of MD5 for all S3 compatible object storage systems.

* Data in an object storage bucket must be managed solely by Veeam Backup & Replication, including retention and data management. If you enable Object Lock and Versioning features on an S3 bucket, make sure that you do NOT enable the default retention option. Enabling lifecycle rules is not supported, and may result in backup and restore failures.

* For some S3 compatible object storage repositories we do not recommended to use more than one bucket for each scale-out backup repository. If you use multiple folders within one bucket for several scale-out backup repositories, it will slow down data processing since the metadata generated by S3 compatible is handled for each bucket. To check requirements for your object storage, contact your S3 compatible vendor.

* [For Amazon S3] Only the Standard, Standard-IA and One Zone-IA storage classes are supported. For more information about Amazon S3 storage classes, see [AWS Documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/?nc1=h_ls).
* S3 compatible storage systems with the eventual data consistency model are not supported.
* To be able to work with [S3 compatible with Data Archiving](compatible_glacier_add.md) object storage, the [SOSAPI functionality](sosapi.md) must be enabled. To enable this, contact your S3 compatible vendor.
* Veeam Backup & Replication does not support native S3 replication across buckets.

Considerations and Limitations for S3 Compatible Repositories with Multiple Buckets

Consider the following limitations:

* If you add [S3 compatible repositories with multiple buckets](object_storage_repository.md#childbuckets) as capacity extents, Veeam Backup & Replication will ignore this setup and store backups in the master bucket.

* Once you enable the multiple bucket option for S3 compatible object storage repositories, you will not be able to convert these repositories back to a single bucket repository.
* You cannot use S3 compatible repositories with multiple buckets as a target repository for [Unstructured Data Backup](unstructured_data_backup.md). This includes backup, archive, or secondary repositories.

* [For Veeam Cloud Connect] You cannot use S3 compatible repositories with multiple buckets as a cloud repository.

* [Read-only permissions](required_permissions.md#s3readonly) are not supported for S3 compatible object storage with multiple buckets.
* After you enable the multiple bucket option for existing S3 compatible object storage repositories, the existing backups will still be located in the master bucket. All new backups will be stored in child buckets.
* Child buckets are not displayed in the UI. You can access them using UI of your S3 compatible object storage vendor.
* You cannot use a child bucket to configure another S3 compatible object storage repository.
* Veeam Backup & Replication keeps configuration backups in a separate location and ignores multiple bucket setup.
* Veeam Backup & Replication does not support the multiple-bucket option for S3-compatible repositories that use [Veeam Smart Object Storage API (SOSAPI)](sosapi.md) functionality with load balancing enabled on a smart entity level.

Page updated 12/9/2025

Page content applies to build 13.0.1.1071
